in this lesson we're going to learn a
new note called a flat and we're going
to learn a fun song that only uses two
notes we've already learned how to play
the note D which is on the fourth line
of the staff and we used a fingering
chart that showed us which fingers of
our home keys to press down to play a D
we're now going to learn an E flat and E
flat is written on the fourth space of
the staff and right in front of the note
we see this symbol that looks sort of
like a slanted lowercase letter B that's
called a flat symbol the cool thing
about learning a flat is that it's
almost exactly the same fingers as
playing a D we only have to add one more
key let's take a look the first note we
learned was D and if we look at our D
fingering chart we remember that we have
the following home keys pressed down our
left hand thumb no first finger our
second finger and third finger are
pressed down and our one two three
fingers on our right hand are pressed
down and no pinkies that is our D note
to play E flat if we look at our E flat
fingering chart it's kind of cool we
only have to add one finger we take our
right hand pinkie and press down the
home key for our right hand pinkie right
here and that makes any flat so d is no
pinkie on the right hand a flat we add
the pinkie on the right hand now that we
know how to play D and E flat on our
flute we're going to learn a fun song
that only uses these two notes it's a
song about a shark and it's called shark
attack
the first phrase of the song our shark
is just beginning to approach so we play
a whole note four beats on D and then a
single quarter note on e-flat then we do
the same thing again now the shark is
getting a little closer so our notes get
a little shorter we'll have a half note
two beats on D and then a quarter note
on e-flat and we do that twice now the
shark is getting really close so we
change to quarter notes back and forth
from D to E flat eight times and then
the song ends with a whole note four
beats on D
okay here's the entire song shark attack
and you can try to play along
and there you have our to note song
shark attack this is a great song to
practice getting used to your D and your
flats on the flute at our website go
bando comm you can download the sheet
music for this song and the background
track to practice along with thanks for
watching
now go practice and I'll see you in the
next lesson
you